I would always introduce myself as a
Korean-Canadian,
and so I was able to select all the
things that I loved about each and melt
it together because that's who I am.
Maggie Kang, Oscar-nominated director of
K-Pop Demon Hunters. Okay, let's do
this. Every time somebody plays the film
on Netflix, they are immersing
themselves in Korean culture, and that's
really special. I want to know about the
musical of the Steve. [music] I didn't
really approve any song until we felt
the because that is the whole point of
this movie is to show that music has
this [music] power to make us feel.
From Bloomberg Weekend, [music]
this is the Michelle Hussain show.
It was the film sensation of last year.
The animated movie K-Pop Demon Hunters
took everyone by surprise when it came
out and got millions of views week after
week, becoming Netflix's most popular
film yet. Now, on the face of it, it's a
kids' movie, but its success is a
milestone in the growing global appeal
of K-Pop. And it also reveals how
something authentically Korean in its
imagery and its influences could bring
in audiences of all ages all over the
world. The force behind it is Maggie
Kang, whose parents came to Canada from
Korea and who went on to work as an
animator in Hollywood, always imagining
that some project reflecting her culture
would come her way, but it didn't. And
so she began her own, the story of a
girl band with secrets. And Maggie
labored for years on every detail, from
the locations to the voice and the look
of the characters to the title and of
course the music. Now she and her
co-director Chris Applehans are watching
K-pop Demon Hunters win success at the
Golden Globes, at the Grammys, and
they're hoping for the same at the
Oscars. Fans meanwhile are hoping for a
sequel, something I asked Maggie Kang
about when she joined me from her home
in LA for this conversation.
What was the moment
when you realized that your creation had
become a global phenomenon last year?
>> [laughter]
>> Oh, a global phenomenon. Uh, uh,
I guess it is.
>> [laughter]
>> I think it was around September and I
took a trip to Korea and then
on the way back, that was when the
sing-alongs were starting and so our
crew was in New York and so I I flew
back from Korea
right to JFK and as soon as I landed
they they took me to a screening
for one of the sing-alongs somewhere
near Central Park and I was very
jet-lagged. I walked in and we're
backstage and they said, "Nobody knows
you guys are here, but we're going to
surprise the audience." And it was it
was it was myself, Chris Applehans,
Arden Cho, I think Kevin Woo, and Remy
were there. And so after the film we
walked in and I don't think I had
experienced a kind of kid audience yet
because I'd seen all the reactions from
Instagram and Tik Tok and online, but
not in person.
And so to walk out there and see just
the wall of like screaming kids just
wearing their Huntricks outfits and the
wigs and parents and it just it was just
kind of all demographics and and a lot
of kids as well and they were just
screaming and they were like loving this
movie and
I think that just really blew my mind. I
I just hadn't really realized how big it
was and how many how many different
people were really loving the film. So,
that was uh and then on top of the jet
lag, I think that was [laughter]
That was yeah, that was a very special
moment.
>> What a great moment and also a
significant moment in the story of the
film because that was some weeks after
release on Netflix, but the sing-alongs
were the way that it went for a short
time into movie theaters and you got
this communal experience which obviously
meant so much to you as the creator.
Yes, that was pretty intense. It was a
it was just a great experience to watch
the film on a big screen with a live
audience and you know, as a filmmaker
who
has worked on this movie for so long for
7 years and
um you know, it I think it the movie
got so so global so quickly because we
were on a streaming platforms and you
know, through Netflix we were able to
release the movie
um I I believe it was something like 120
countries at once and that was just an
incredible like way to release and I
don't think you could get as global as
that. And so we benefited from from that
release and having it be uh dubbed in so
many languages as well. But to
experience a movie that you that you
made and worked on for so long um in a
theater with a with an audience who
already loved the movie, I don't know
what it's like with an audience that
doesn't know your movie yet,
>> [laughter]
>> but they're already there loving it and
it felt like a concert and it felt like
I was experiencing what we were trying
to capture in our film is that communal
love for something for
for Huntress and so that was very
special. And I want to hear the story of
those 7 years in getting to to the
moment that the movie's come out. But
before I do that, Kara Swisher was the
one who first told me to see it and I
have and I [clears throat]
I marvel at what you've done. But, for
anyone who hasn't seen it, I think we
should tell a bit of the story. So, how
would you describe it? The clue is kind
of in the title that it is both K-pop
and about demon hunting. Yes. The way
that I pitched it to my producer friend
who bought this bought the concept is
it's a K-pop girl group called Hunnitrix
who secretly moonlight as demon hunters
and protect the world from demons.
That's
That's it.
>> [laughter]
>> What kind of reactions did you get cuz
hearing you say the words like we're all
used to the concept now, it's been
massively successful, but it sounds
pretty unlikely. Yes, it sounds pretty
wild and pretty crazy and fortunately
the person I pitched it to was very very
down to do it. He felt like it was very
gettable and unique and he's was just
immediately like, let's do this and I
totally thought he was joking, but the
next week he had a deal ready. So, we
just jumped right into development, but
it is a wild concept. I I do agree.
And you'd been thinking about it had you
for a long time because at the heart of
the movie, it's authenticity, the fact
that it's so rooted in Korean culture.
This is of course your own heritage as a
Korean Canadian. So, was the genesis of
the film in the back of your mind for a
long time?
I've always wanted to do a a film rooted
in Korean culture and I've always wanted
to work on one since the beginning
phases of my career and I had talked to
a bunch of Korean studios that and and
so I knew that the desire to make
something Korean was there even in
Korea, but we just didn't know
how to get that off the ground and
for years I just I I waited for a
project like this to come along that I
could contribute to,
But, it never came. And so, by the time
I felt like I had developed my skills
enough, my writing skills, my comedy
skills, my storyboarding skills, my
filmmaking skills,
and and I was I felt confident to step
into the directing role,
I thought, well, I guess nobody has done
this yet. Maybe I have to take it on
myself to make something for our
culture. And
so, that's what I did.
And what you've done is create this
blend of something that is authentic in
that
Korean mythology, the Korean language,
the setting in Seoul. Yes. The names of
your characters and and places. And yet
it's accessible. You know, it it has
that international feel to it. And
deconstruct that for us. How do you
produce that combination? Um you know, I
truly
believe it's because I am somebody who
really lives between two cultures,
almost equally, I would say.
Um I've never really
I I I would always um introduce myself
as a Korean Canadian. I always put
Korean first, even though I've spent the
majority of my life outside of Korea. I
was born in Korea. I lived there until I
was 5 before my family immigrated to
Canada.
And I lived there for 18 years before
moving to the States.
But, I
I I always identified as Korean first.
And I think it's because my parents, my
mom specifically, always told me that
you are Korean. You can never forget the
language. And just really instilled that
Korean pride in me early early on. And
and because they really wanted my sister
and I to to have deep roots, um you
know, with their culture, we spent all
of our summer vacations in Korea with
our cousins. And And so, that's where I
was just immersed in Korean culture,
Korean pop culture. And so, I grew up
listening to Korean music even before
the the kind of style of K-pop ever
existed. Korean music is my first like
introduction to music, really. And so,
because I grew up with that,
um it it was just always there. And
then, you know, English is my second
language and North American pop culture
is my second, you know, knowledge. So, I
do feel like I have equally like deep
roots in both. And so, I was able to
kind of select all the things that I
loved about each and melt it together
because that's I That's who I am. I'm
I'm just a melt of both cultures. But
earlier on in your life, Maggie, were
there aspects of this you struggled
with? Look, I come from a South Asian
background. I grew up as an expat kid in
the Middle East. I My family came to the
UK later, but I remember being very
conscious of the fact in a British
school I didn't call my parents Mom and
Dad. You know, these things it's not
easy to be different. It's not. And um
and I did I did face that, of course.
But because I grew up in Toronto, and
Toronto is a is already a very
multicultural
city, it's very diverse, and the city
encourages different cultures to
to celebrate their culture. We have
Koreatown, we have Greektown, we have
Little Italy, so and Chinatown. And so,
I always felt like I was growing up with
a lot of different people from different
backgrounds.
But even then, I did feel like as a
Korean person, even amongst the Asian
community, we we were kind of in a a
minority because most of my friends
Well, actually, all my friends that I
went to high school with are Chinese.
And all my Asian friends are. And as a
Korean person, I still felt a little bit
of an outsider because they could
celebrate things together as Chinese
people, but I as the only Korean friend,
I felt a little bit on the outside and I
remember
when Mulan, Disney's Mulan came out,
they were very excited that they were
their culture was being celebrated
through the lens of Disney, but they
were also frustrated that it wasn't
represented properly.
Like exactly the way that they wanted it
cuz it is kind of a melt of Chinese
culture and Japanese culture and Korean
influences in there as well.
And when I heard that, I just you know,
that really stuck with me and so when I
started on K-Pop Demon Hunters, that was
very important to me is to make
something uh that showcased our culture
in the modern day and not fantasy, not
like old times when you could kind of
feel like you have liberties to change
things or or skew things in in more of a
fantasy lens.
But I wanted to represent our culture
like the way it is now. Did you find
yourself at school ever having to
explain where Korea is or what Korea is?
I did and my earliest uh memory of that
was I I was I was at a young age. I was
maybe about 8 or 9 years old, I think
and my teacher asked me if I was Chinese
and I said no.
They asked me if I was Japanese, I said
no. Well, I'm from Korea and
um the teacher tried to find it on a map
and did could not find it and
I pointed it out to them and they were
like, "Oh, it's a country between Japan
and China." And [snorts] I was shocked.
I was shocked that um my teacher
couldn't find it on the map and
even at a young age, I was very proud of
where I came from.
>> [snorts]
>> But that really left a mark on me and I
think that was kind of the spark
for me. Well, the fact that you can
remember it all these years down the
line, how did it make you feel at the
time? Like where you came from didn't
matter? I was very confused why somebody
wouldn't wouldn't know about
this culture that I you know, I have
been told by my parents that it's this
great culture and and I knew so much of
the history as well reading books and
being taught it and like where our
language came from and why it was
developed. I because I knew all of that
it oddly didn't make me feel like our
culture was smaller, but it made me just
a little bit more proud, I think. Um
and I think it lit a spark in me that
you know, that I really wanted to do
whatever I could to educate people about
about our culture. Yeah, even at a young
age, I remember having that feeling.
Obviously, you've really done that
through this. There are children,
parents, people of all ages really all
around the world who consciously or even
subliminally have you learned things
about Korea, your culture, your history
through this film. Yeah, and I mean,
that's one of the most proud um things
about that I feel about film is that
every time somebody plays the film on
Netflix, they are immersing themselves
in Korean culture and
and that's that's really special. And
your parents, what did they want you to
grow up to be? Were they trying to push
you in a particular direction?
Well, I'm the youngest of two kids and
so I I didn't get the doctor, lawyer,
typical Asian family
>> that. wanting your your kid to be an
academic. I didn't get that really. My
dad, he has a lot of interests in it,
but fortunately for me, he one of his
biggest interests is is film. He's a
huge cinephile and um so I grew up and
he has a massive collection of of of
film from directors all over the world
and at a young age, I was exposed to the
best films created like uh Kurosawa
films, Fellini, like uh
a Kieslowski, Chaplin, Buster Keaton. So
I I got this
like film schooling at my house. And I
think he knew that I wanted to be a
storyteller because I I wrote little
stories at school, too, at a young age.
And I would only draw when I had
something to say. Like it was for these
characters or these story moments. And
so my dad bought me an animation book, a
Disney animation book, and that was the
first time I
really knew or or realized that this
could be a career.
And so he really supported me down that
path. There were oddly the odd Asian
parents who were very supportive of a
child going into the arts. So I'm really
grateful that they supported me for
that. So you were drawn to animation
because you could draw as well as write?
Yes. Yes. I like to draw and and that's
what my dad saw, and I think he kind of
put those two things together for me.
Just the love of film and storytelling
and and animation. Tell me about the
genre and what it gives you. Is there a
freedom in animation that you can draw
the characters any way you like? Yes, I
think there's that. There's also just
our process of filmmaking.
You can iterate a lot. You can iterate
to no end, really.
You iterate until your producer says,
"Okay, we're out of money." Or your time
is up and we need to move this into
production.
Um and so we always joke that, you know,
in animation, you're never done you just
run out of time.
And so you're able to kind of craft
moments and craft it until it's almost
perfect. And and I think that's what we
are striving for in animation is
perfection. And and it can be dangerous
because when you do that and when you
rework something, it can feel very
labored and feel unnatural. But to make
it feel feel natural and feel
spontaneous is um is really tricky, but
um you know, we try to strive for that
as well. How do you get there to make it
feel spontaneous? Let me into your
world.
Oddly enough, it it requires rewatching
something many many times. And um
and sometimes it's it's changing a
couple of words that a
character can would say or it's a
performance of it. And some of our
process is you know, when we work with
the actors, we take many takes for even
a line that's that's I don't know, as
simple as
"Hey, what are you doing?" You could say
that line in so many different ways and
so many different tones. And so we'll
get even for a line that simple, we'll
get 20 or 40 different takes of that
same line and we'll review every single
one of them.
And
every intonation within that line can
change the tone of the entire sentence,
the delivery of it. So
>> I'm just imagining the actors being in
the room and you [clears throat] taking
them through that because you've got to
manage their expectations there.
>> Yes.
Energy, you know, there probably is a
point where you think or they're
thinking, "Can I really do it anymore
anymore different ways?" Oh, I know. And
then after after you say the same line
five or even 10 times, they just become
syllables and they just lose all
meaning. And I know this because I've
done this as well for the movie. It just
becomes weird. Like you're just saying
you don't know what you're saying
anymore and it can get that way. I want
to know about the music obviously cuz
that's such a key part of this. What's
the process? You have these songs within
the film that have been so incredibly
successful in their own right.
>> Yes. Golden is the most obvious one, but
there are others like Take Down. Do you
give the songwriters a brief, "I want a
certain kind of song for this moment in
the film" and then they're kind of
trying songs out on you?
>> Mhm.
It was a very long process. I'll use
Golden as an example.
We work on something called a reel, a
story reel, and it's all storyboards.
It's all hand-drawn, and we have story
artists who create these drawings that
represent the finished movie. So, they
are thinking about what the camera shot
is, what the action is in that moment.
So, they draw out the characters moving.
And it's not really animated. I would
say it's like two drawings per second.
Let's say something like that. And so,
and then we have an editor who cuts all
those drawings and makes this reel. And
then we have temp music, temp dialogue,
temp effect sounds, and we basically
just mock up the film that we envisioned
for the final.
And that is what get keeps getting
updated and reviewed until it is ready
to be animated. And so, during that
process, we pick a song that is already
existing in the world, so a pop song,
and we'll drop it into the moment just
for vibes to to see if this is the right
kind of song that we want. So, based on
that song, we will create an original
song that is more in tune with what we
would like it to be emotionally and
suiting the story. So, you in a way,
maybe it's not the right thing to think
of it as a soundtrack. You're all
thinking of the songs as an integral
part of the story, and I think we see
that in Golden because there's a moment
within it which is a kind of darker,
more troubled moment for Rumi. Yes. We
make these long uh documents, written
documents. And for Golden, it was about
six pages, and it was very late in the
process that we realized that Golden
needed to be a song that just gave us a
little clue of each of the girls'
backstories. So, we would write that
down and and write a backstory for Mira,
for Zoe, for Rumi.
And the sto- the song is about we are
this amazing group of women. We are this
amazing group huntrix, but you know, but
this is where we came from. We kind of
came from nothing and now we are here,
but we are striving for more. That is
really the story of Golden. And then
Rumi within that has her own personal
story.
Um and so we would write that in a
document very literally. And then we
would hand that off to the lyricists and
it's their job to take a paragraph of
just dry information and distill it down
into, I don't know, 20 words that are
like [clears throat] pop lyrics. And
that's, you know, that's a very hard job
to do. And then the track is also made
at the same time. And we listened a few
tracks and Chris and I didn't really
approve any song until we felt the
tingles, like the butterflies in our
stomach.
>> [music]
>> Because the whole point of this movie is
to show that music has this power to
like make us feel. And so those things
come together.
>> [music]
>> Chris Appelhans, your co-director.
>> My directing partner, yes.
>> Yeah, absolutely at the at the heart of
this.
>> Yes. One of the important things about
this is that your characters are away
from stereotypes about race and Asian
characters that we still see often in
movies. Like they're very studious or
they're like model people without flaws.
But I did want to ask you one thing
about the portrayal of of women because
they are really strong, complex,
interesting women. Before I joined
Hunnid racks, I felt like my thoughts
and my lyrics and all my notebooks were
just useless and
weird.
But with the two of you, they mean
something. But they're all drawn very
thin. Yeah. [laughter]
As female characters tend to be. Mhm.
Why is that? Could you Did you think
about drawing them differently? We did,
but you know, we we were very much on
the aesthetics of the film. We were very
much inspired by anime films and so we
just leaned into those aesthetics. We
are just fans of that style of Sailor
Moon, Cowboy Bebop, and those are the
kind of anime films that we grew up
with. So, it's just an it's an homage to
those designs. But, given you have all
of these girls, young women, watching.
Yes. But, you know, within those
characters, we worked very hard to
distinguish them. You know, I think Zoe
in particular, you know, we gave her a
little thicker legs and a bottom and
>> [laughter]
>> And so, we do we do we do feel like we
had those those little differences. I
mean, if the film's come out at a moment
where the world is in the midst of Well,
Mark Carney, when he came on this
podcast, said in the middle of a
rupture, and your characters are trying
to save their world, right? The demons
that they're slaying are trying to
destroy everything around them. Yes. How
do you feel about the way that audiences
will be seeing it at this moment in
time, given what we're seeing unfold?
So, when we were very deep into the
writing process, even in the first
draft, the movie ended with this big
concert number, and we knew that it
would be um
a performance where the girls would
start, kind of be reunited, and the
final kind of
stage would be the entire stadium full
of fans contributing into the song and
singing it to defeat the the demons.
And you know, we we kind of worried that
if it was a little cheesy
>> [laughter]
>> and it wasn't a little cheesy to make a
movie about the power of music.
But, it was during COVID time, and a lot
of groups, especially BTS specifically,
had this
online concert where they would perform
and
I don't know, millions of people around
the world were tuning in to watch this
one concert. And I remember there was
this shot where they were on the stage
and the back uh behind them there were
all these faces of the of the audience
that were tuning in.
And it was just incredible to see even
in the dark time like COVID where we
were all huddled in our own private
spaces that there was this unifying like
force of music just uniting people and
bringing joy to people at this dark
time. And that really told us that this
moment could really land. And so um I
feel like that is what's happening now
with the release of the movie. People
are kind of coming together and being
able to celebrate um and share this
experience of this movie with uh
together. And that's something that only
art can really do is um unite people um
and no matter what your background is
and no matter if you you know don't
speak the same language um you everybody
kind of speaks the language of music and
knows what that feels like. Yeah. I was
thinking listening to the songs which
are English but they've got words of and
phrases of Korean in them. That people
are singing along and there are words
they might not understand within the
song and it doesn't matter. They can
still enjoy it. And what a contrast that
is to something like the Super Bowl
which we've just seen where Yeah. the
use of Spanish is to some people really
controversial. Yeah, you know I just
feel like art just speaks to you no
matter what language it is in. And I
think that's the beauty of art. And so
we just really should embrace that.
Yeah, it's just such a powerful medium.
And you you were a fan of K-pop or it
was you know part of your tradition long
before the rest of the world had
discovered it. You were born in the
1980s. And have you through this helped
deliver a key moment for K-pop which is
also about further opening this gateway
to its growth in the rest of the world?
Um that's what what tell me.
>> [laughter]
>> I've met a lot of um the labels. Um
there's four major labels of K-pop in in
Korea and I've met with all of them and
and um they're so grateful that K-pop is
just kind of reached another level, I
think. And there's so many fans that I
meet that tell me, "I didn't even know
what K-pop was and or I had no interest
in it and you and this movie really let
me down a path of K-pop and now I'm a
big fan." And
and uh the fandom allows them not just
to enjoy the music, but but just want to
learn more about the culture and
experience other K content, like the
movies or K-beauty or K-food. And so I
think it's just a beautiful way for
people to just find our culture. So
um yes, I I definitely feel like it's
helped K-pop, but also just other
aspects of our culture as well. Yeah,
and you've been very deliberate about it
because obviously K-pop is in the title
of the film and that would have been a
draw to many people who know what it is,
but it could have been a barrier to
others. So in a way you you took a risk
by doing that.
>> Yes, we did. Yes, and that was we talked
about that for about a year.
>> [laughter]
>> While we were finishing up the movie,
what the title could be cuz this was
always the working title of the movie,
but we we went down a lot of different
routes with the title, but we couldn't
land on anything that felt
right. So um ultimately after a year of
exploring, we just landed back on the
working title and
you know, it's a little it's a little
cheesy. I have to admit, it really is,
but I think that's what the movie is a
little bit. There's some kind of silly
moments to the film, totally. It's a
mashup of a lot of different things and
it's it's a little cookie and I I and
because of that I think the title kind
of fits it. The title does
do what it says, right?
>> despite the title, I feel like people
and I've I've been told that as well.
It's like, "I didn't want to watch it
because of of the title, but
>> [laughter]
>> There must be some
vindication
for you, Maggie, in that one of the
great things about this is that people
weren't really expecting it to be the
runaway success that it was, right? A
lot of retailers didn't buy into the
merchandise. They're like catching up
with the merchandise. Sony made it, but
sold the rights to Netflix. Are there
people at Sony who are regretting that?
>> [laughter]
>> Maybe.
Um I mean, we produced the movie at
Sony, so I think we're all celebrating
the movie and the success there.
But yes, we were definitely the
underdog. Um there was no marketing for
the movie.
Um and I think we we were fortunate to
have a really good trailer that really
told the audience what the movie was
going to be and what the tone of the
movie was going to be. You know, when
you're an underdog, you don't have a lot
of eyes on you, so
you can get away with some things, and
that's what some of my director friends
asked me. They said, "How did you get
away with some of these things that you
did in the movie?" But we had a core
group from the very beginning, and one
of them was uh Kristine Belson, the
president of Sony Animation. She was a
firm believer in this film and really
supported it. So, and the support of the
fans. Yeah. But there must have been
frustrations along the way, right? I'm
just imagining you've poured your heart
and soul into the film, and then you
don't have a marketing budget or much of
a marketing budget. You know, I mean,
that's got to be tough at the time.
>> It was tough. It was It was really
tough, but it was just tough all all the
way through, but I think I I always
thought back to
the moment where um I knew that we we
got the green light, and that happened
during COVID, and it was during a time
where the movie industry was already
pretty uncertain, and putting movies in
theaters was a little uncertain, and
COVID made that even worse, and
but then to be given an opportunity
during those hard times to make a movie,
let alone a personal film about my own
culture, an original that's not a
sequel. And so, I was just grateful to
just complete a film and to release it.
And I believed in the movie
when we finished. I I really loved the
movie myself. And and you know, our team
did, too. And so, we really believed
that if an audience will find it, then
it could do okay. And they did.
They found it right away.
>> [laughter]
>> Would you have liked it to be in
cinemas, movie theaters for longer,
Maggie? Because
the future of those places depends on
having the films that get people in the
door. And the sing-along release, it was
a very short time that people could see
it on the big screen. Yes. As somebody
who's working in Hollywood, you know, we
we don't want to see theaters die. I
think that I think that experience is
unlike anything else.
It's like going to a concert. You're
you're sharing art with strangers and
you're connecting with them. Even though
you may not be talking to people that
are sitting next to you, there's
something about being around fellow
humans and experiencing something new. A
theater experience is unlike anything
else.
So, I would hate to see that disappear.
Um but with that said, the way that
people are consuming content, especially
the younger generations, is has changed.
We tend to absorb content on our phones
and on our iPads, um all alone.
And without the fans, this movie, a
movie like this that's on a streaming
platform, couldn't have gotten this big.
It was all word of mouth and content
being created by the fans and that being
shared and talked about on social media.
So,
I don't know. It's still a a big
question mark for me, but I do think
that two can coexist. And I would love
to see a world where that can that can
happen. Maybe what you've done might
make someone like Ted Sarandos of
Netflix think that what he said about
the movie theater being outmoded is not
necessarily right. Yes.
I'll I'll try to talk to Ted about that.
>> [laughter]
>> Speaking of fans, I love the way that
the film has fans like, you know,
Huntrix fans right at the heart of it
and then you're talking now about the
fans of the film and of you. So,
do you have a message for them about
what is going to come next? What is the
next iteration of K-pop Demon Hunters
from Maggie Kang? Mhm.
>> [sighs]
>> Oh,
>> [gasps]
>> I don't know. I don't know what I will
do next. I really don't. Um, but I can't
really share that at the moment, but
>> a sequel, surely.
I mean, I can't really say that
officially, but I would say
I would be shocked I mean, in a world
where that love sequels, it's I don't
think it's a surprise that something
something else could be coming.
But,
I don't know. It's going to be a long
wait for anything, um, unfortunately.
Why? Animation just takes a long time.
It's just, um,
>> Well, does it have to be animation? What
about a live-action version?
I really think there's so much that the
animation medium brings to the film, the
tone of the movie, the the type of the
characters that we were able to create,
the type of comedy that we were able to
push, the drama.
So, I firmly believe that the movie
couldn't have seen the success if it was
live-action. And so, because of that, I
would like to stick to animation, but
also that is why I love animation. I
aspire to do live-action someday, but
they are two very different mediums and
animation is successful
it's globally successful and is able to
be successful with multiple demographics
for for
And I truly believe that it's a special
medium that in many ways can be just so
much more impactful than live action.
Well, what else could be part of this
ecosystem? I wonder if you dream of a
franchise like the Marvel films or if
you're thinking about live events like
Bridgeton have and you know, there are
so many dimensions that you could take
great characters and storytelling in.
What do you dream of? Yeah, there is and
I think it's every filmmaker's dream to
have an IP that can live for generations
and you know, we can share with our
children like we did with Disney films
like The Little Mermaid and Lion King
and Frozen. So that's always a dream. So
I'd love I'd love to see that. Yeah.
We have a lot of merch coming up which
is very exciting for the fans too this
year.
>> Yeah, well, again, that's catch up,
right? Because people did not
necessarily order it early on. What
about the impact on you, Maggie? If I'd
met you this time last year, how
different a person were you before this
huge thing that you've created hit the
world? You know, I feel like I'm still
very grounded. Like I this this whole
experience has been amazing, but I'm
still at heart a storyteller and a
creator and although this awards run has
been amazing and fun, I just can't wait
to dive right back into another movie
and and and figure something out, you
know, and to for the world to share.
Yeah. Into the sequel, I'm imagining.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm sure that's what a lot of people
have. Uh
yeah.
And how are you preparing for Oscar
night? Will you be nervous? Will you be
apprehensive before a big big moment
like that?
Oh, you know, I hadn't really been
thinking about it. Um but yesterday we
had the Oscars luncheon where we
celebrated every single nominee and that
was really special. I actually didn't
know that that was part of the program
where
um they announced every every person
individually and when your name is
called you go and stand and that's where
they place you for that big class photo
and it was such a special moment and
just it's so amazing to just share that
moment with fellow nominees and and get
to know them and and and meet them.
And I think that really told me like
wow, you were going to the Oscars. This
event that you were watching on TV with
your with your family for for decades,
you will be going there. You may go on
that stage and that just really hit me,
made it really real. And so I'm just
going to enjoy every single moment,
every single second of it and I'm just
very excited to be part of that this
legacy of the Oscars and get in the
history books no matter what happens on
March 15th.
You know, me and K-pop team managers are
on there, you know, so I'm very proud. I
suspect it won't be the only time that
you go to the Oscars as a nominee.
I hope. I hope. I hope to see the same
success with a live action movie.
>> [laughter]
>> Yes, one day.
Very best of luck for the Oscars,
Maggie. Thank you for talking to us.
Thank you. Thank you so much.
>> [music]